All right.
So that marks the end of yet another section.
So let's do a quick review of everything that we've learned.
In this section, we started working with the View Test Utils library, which allows us to mount and
interact with view components outside the browser.
So we saw how we use this in combination with the Gest Testing Library.
With Gest, we write our actual assertions and with view test utils, we mount and customize our view
components.
So this is specific to testing view.
While Gest is a general JavaScript testing library, we saw a new matcher called to match which allows
us to check for text or even regular expressions within another piece of text.
We also introduced some helpful methods on the wrapper object that the view test utils library gives
us, such as the channel method to see the raw HTML of the component and the text method to see the
text that the component displays on the screen.
We also saw how we could customize the data in our Mountain View component.
In our test, we can either provide the second argument to the Mount function, where we customize the
data method and the object that it returns.
We can set whatever properties and whatever values we want there, or alternatively, we can use the
set data method on the wrapper object after we have mounted that component.
Now in regards to set data, that was an example of a test where we needed to use the S6 async await
syntax because we had certain operations that take time to complete and we needed to wait for them to
complete before we could actually run our just assertion the operation otherwise would not have completed
in time for our assertion and we would have gotten a failure incorrectly.
Right.
And more importantly than all of that specific technical stuff, we also had higher level, almost philosophical
discussions on testing.
And the key takeaway that I'd like for you to have is that we want our tests to mirror the user's interaction
with the component.
As such, we'd like to generally avoid artificial changes to the component, such as calling the set
data method.
Now, I'm not saying that you should never use this and that, you know, under no scenario should you
use this, because obviously these methods are available.
And I do want to teach you as much a view and view test utils as we can.
But I also want to just give you the general principles on what makes a good test.
And whenever we interact with our components in a way that is not typical of how the user will interact,
we're really not testing the real world.
We're testing our own specific developer world instead, right?
So we want to not trigger artificial changes.
We want to keep the test simple.
Ideally use TDD because the ultimate goal is to decouple the tests from our implementation.
We want to almost imagine as if you doesn't exist and we're really just want to think if I render this
component and if I mount this component, what is its responsibility?
What should it be doing?
What is its behavior?
We're testing simple inputs and outputs where input is our instantiated component and our output is
something that it's supposed to produce for us.
So we want to test behavior.
We don't want to test implementation because when we test implementation, our tests become very closely
coupled to our actual code.
So when our code changes, our tests will break because they're connected.
Ideally, your tests should be able to stay stable and durable and maintain that that feeling that you
are correctly testing something, even if you decide to change your implementation.
So if your implementation changes five times but your test still pass, that's a good sign that your
tests are checking the general behavior of what the piece of logic is supposed to do, and all of your
changes as far as how you implement that behavior are up to you and are more separate from the tests.
Again, that is easier said than done, but we introduced that principle and saw a variety of tests
and discussed why some were better than others.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next section.